I'm joined Now by James Elder from
UNICEF he is in
Geneva what do you fear will happen if
there is an allout assault on ruer where
do people
go we're just going to see catastrophe
upon catastrophe I think your your your
last viewer and your correspondent
captured it perfectly there's nowhere to
go now this this idea of safe zones that
was first moted in in November
completely ignored the fact that a safe
Zone can't it's not about just not
bombing it although safe zones have been
bombed it's about making sure people
have access to water and sanitation and
food and by virtue of in Rafa recently
until this morning the average person
had about one liter of water per day per
person one liter way underneath any
sense of emergency humanitarian
guidelines now they're being forced to
move again to carun I was in car unus
last month carus is Rubble as as your
correspondent said Derry berler is under
under immense attack so we have language
is very important here the idea that
people can go somewhere safe after
they've moved four or five times or the
children I've met who are intense in Raa
having been in a hospital with
amputations and they should still be in
a hospital but such as the crazy number
of children with wounds of War there's a
turnover rate European Hospital of
course the biggest functioning Hospital
still in Gaza my understanding is in
that evacuation Zone that's 20,000
people taking shelter much less than the
many hundreds and brave health staff so
but as mindboggling as this is it seems
to be happening and it will be
horrific so just to be clear about this
if people do have the option of being
able to leave if if they are able bodied
enough to be able to move there's
nowhere to go but as you were saying you
spent some time in Khan yunes you say
it's rubble and inside the European
Hospital which I think is you know one
of the last functioning hospitals in
Gaza it's also very important because it
supplies some of the the smaller
facilities that might still be
functioning you say that it's crammed
with severely injured and dying children
so you know those people who have had
amputations or are suffering from
injuries are not able to move so there
is nothing left for them to do but to to
sit there and
wait well I think people you've seen
some people again those some people are
seeking to move who can remembering that
it's also a little bit about Finance
this as finances at this point not
everyone has the funds to move across
Gaza again having had their coping
capacity
smashed but yes there are a large number
of people there are children there are
wounded children there are sick people
we know that the sheer lack of Aid
that's been able to get in the way
people have been deprived of nutrition
and water we have a lot of malnourished
children and there are the elderly you
know UNICEF an agency like us yes we
work for children but I'm well aware of
the elderly whove moved four or five
times and do not have the ability to
move again to a tent on a very very
crowded overcrowded Beach um where
there's no sanitation so this is the
reality that people have now been faced
with and we are told of course that this
will be I think the word is a limited
offensive okay but I was in the the
south of of the Gaza Strip on my first
mission in November and we were told
that there's no way the South would
endure the same ferocity of the north
and now we have carun which is
Devastation like no one has ever seen
before so we going to see that again in
Rafa a we will see a lot of people
killed in bombardment B disease which is
already taking root will spread like
wildfire FL fire and then when this is
done then there is nowhere in Gaza then
you are talking about Rubble so it's a
ceas fire it's hostages home relief to
those starving these fighting parties
have to for one focus on the civilians
and the children of Rafa James on that
point on October 31st you UNICEF said
that Gaza is a graveyard for children uh
I think you have spent some 20 years
with the United Nations just tell me
briefly what have you seen in Gaza City
and inhan
unes the devastation I saw there is like
nothing I've seen as you said my two
decades but I also reached out to
colleagues and Friends who'd work
through other crises big crises of this
of this Century who' also had not seen
the sheer scope of that everywhere you
would turn
360° was rubble and this speaks again to
what we've been saying for months is the
indiscriminate nature of this you don't
destroy hundreds and hundreds of housing
blocks not a single standing University
or functioning University in Gaza that
only happens with a particular intent
and that's same military intent which
has led to now more than 14,000 children
killed 14,000 girls and boys that same
intent is now just moving hundreds of
thousands of people from A to B not
caring that they don't have the ability
to move or the safety or the sanitation
or the toilets I know this has been such
a grave intense ferocious war that
sometimes we forget when you deny a
family an old person a teenage girl
water and sanitation denying them that
dignity and that's been going for six or
seven months denying children the
psychological support Gaza right now as
UNICEF have said has said it's not a
place for children this is an active war
zone where they have seen and heard
unspeakable Horrors but it's their home
this gazer is their home but you have
every single child there under some type
of trauma and most of them the majority
of those children are now in Rafa the
place they were told to go even though
there are bombardments every night even
though as your correspondent said many
children died overnight this has been
the home that they've held on to and now
they have to go again this horror show
apparently stunningly is about to get
worse thank you very much from UNICEF
James
Elder make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer